**Are verbs marked in a non-indicative mood in counterfactual conditional clauses?**

Counterfactuality may be defined as “fictitious creation of a possible world which does not correspond to the actual world and therefore is “contrary to fact”" (Squartini 2019:64). Counterfactuality may be expressed in connection with past, present, and future. In all cases, the protasis is contrary to fact, false, or unlikely. This question investigates whether the verb of the protasis is marked in a specific mood (terms *conditional*, *irrealis* may be used). For example, Finnish (1) and Nganasan (2) make use of conditional marking.  

>(1) Finnish<br/>
>*Jos  ol-isi-t leipo-nut kaku-n, sö-isi-n se-n*<br/>
>if be-COND-2SG bake-ACT.PST.PTCP  cake-GEN eat-COND-1SG it-GEN<br/>
>’If you had baked a cake, I would eat it.’

>(2) Nganasan<br/>
>*mɨŋ ŋəmə-Ɂkə-suə i-hü-nüɁ ńaagəi-Ɂ kuntu-baaðəi-ńüɁ* (Wagner-Nagy 2018)<br/> 
>we eat-RES-PST.[3SG] be-COND-OBL.1PLPOSS good-ADV sleep-IRR.RFL-1PL.RFL<br/>
>‘If we had eaten, we would have slept well.’ 

**Coding.** The value is '1' if in counterfactual conditional clauses verbs of the protasis (typically the 'if'-clause) are marked in the non-indicative mood.

**References**<br/>
Squartini, Mario. 2016. Interactions Between Modality and Other Semantic Categories. In Jan Nuyts & Johan van der Auwera (eds.), *The Oxford Handbook of Modality and Mood*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Wagner-Nagy, Beáta Boglárka. 2019. *A grammar of Nganasan* (Grammars and Language Sketches of the World’s Languages. Indigenous Languages of Russia). Leiden, Boston: Brill.
